Installation guide for Self Hosted on GCP GKE (#574)
tembo-io/website: src/content/docs/product/software/tembo-self-hosted/install-on-gcp-gke.mdx

### Installing the plugin

```shell 
gcloud components install gke-gcloud-auth-plugin
```

### Update `kubectl` to use the plugin

```shell
gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME \
    --zone=$COMPUTE_ZONE
```

### Verify the configuration

You should be able to see output similar to the following:

```shell
$ kubectl get namespaces
NAME              STATUS   AGE
default           Active   51d
kube-node-lease   Active   51d
kube-public       Active   51d
kube-system       Active   51d
```

## Step 6: Install Helm dependencies

### Install `cert-manager`

```shell
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.14.4 --set installCRDs=true
```

## Step 7: Install the Tembo Helm chart

Clone the Tembo Self Hosted repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/tembo-io/tembo-self-hosted
```

Now, within the cloned `tembo-self-hosted` directory, create a file `my-values.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
global:
  baseDomain: tembo.mydomain.com
  monitoringEnabled: true
  conductorEnabled: false
  traefikEnabled: true

> tembo:

Reviewer: There are some temboUI values that need to be set as well

  cpWebserver:
    env:
      - name: CLERK_SECRET_KEY
        value: <secret-key>
      - name: CLERK_WEBHOOK_SIGNING_SECRET
        value: <signing-secret>
      - name: STRIPE_SECRET_KEY
        value: <secret-key>
      - name: STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SIGNING_SECRET
        value: <signing-secret>
      - name: METRONOME_SECRET_KEY

>         value: <secret-key>

Reviewer: @vrmiguel can you confirm whether these can be safely ignored?

Author: Just removed these on my install and `helm upgraded`, seems ok!

Using the `gcloud` CLI, the process would be:

```
export TRAEFIK_EXTERNAL_IP=4.150.40.100

gcloud dns managed-zones create tembo-dns-zone \
    --description="Tembo DNS zone" \
    --dns-name="tembo.mydomain.com"

gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone=tembo-dns-zone

gcloud dns record-sets transaction add $TRAEFIK_EXTERNAL_IP \
    --name="*.gke1.tembo.mydomain.com." \
    --ttl=300 \
    --type=A \
    --zone=tembo-dns-zone

gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone=tembo-dns-zone
```

Verify the zone worked:

```shell
gcloud dns record-sets list --zone=tembo-dns-zone
```

```shell
$ nslookup test.tembo.mydomain.com
```

## Step 9: Start the Tembo Controller

Let's now enable the `conductor` component:

```shell
global:
  baseDomain: tembo.mydomain.com
  monitoringEnabled: true
  conductorEnabled: true
  traefikEnabled: true
```

Upgrade the Self Hosted Helm chart so that changes take effect:

```shell
helm upgrade tembo . -f my-values.yaml -n tembo
```

## Step 10: Check the status of the installation

```

> ❯ kubectl get po

Reviewer: We should show the pods that are present when monitoring and traefik are enabled

---
title: Install Tembo Self Hosted on GCP GKE
uppercase: false
sideBarPosition: 11
sideBarTitle: Install on GCP GKE
---

This guide describes the steps to install Tembo Self Hosted on GCP, which allows you to deploy a high-performance, fully-extensible managed Postgres service within a [Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine) cluster.

## Step 1: Obtain prerequisites

> Before starting this tutorial, you must install and configure the following tools and resources that you need to create and manage Tembo Self Hosted on an Amazon EKS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting this tutorial, you must install and configure the following tools and resources that you need to create and manage Tembo Self Hosted on a GCP GKE cluster.
```

```

### Update `kubectl` to use the plugin

```shell
gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME \
    --zone=$COMPUTE_ZONE
```

### Verify the configuration

You should be able to see output similar to the following:

```shell
$ kubectl get namespaces
NAME              STATUS   AGE
default           Active   51d
kube-node-lease   Active   51d
kube-public       Active   51d
kube-system       Active   51d
```

## Step 6: Install Helm dependencies

### Install `cert-manager`

```shell
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.14.4 --set installCRDs=true
```

## Step 7: Install the Tembo Helm chart

Clone the Tembo Self Hosted repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/tembo-io/tembo-self-hosted
```

Now, within the cloned `tembo-self-hosted` directory, create a file `my-values.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
global:
  baseDomain: tembo.mydomain.com
  monitoringEnabled: true
  conductorEnabled: false
  traefikEnabled: true
tembo:
  cpWebserver:
    env:
      - name: CLERK_SECRET_KEY
        value: <secret-key>
      - name: SELF_HOSTED
        value: "true"
  temboUI:

>     image:
>       tag: "aed9151"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not necessary here

    env:
      - name: INTERCOM_SECRET
        value: "xx1XX9AxxTxL46iOWVqmvEIN2dEeE9ASm-XXXXXod"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL
        value: "https://api.tembo.mydomain.com/api"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL_V1

>         value: "https://api.tembo.mydomain.com/api/v1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        value: "http://api.tembo.mydomain.com/api/v1"
```
`http` until we have steps for configuring certificates.

      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_INTERCOM_APP_ID
        value: "xxxxixeb"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_METRICS_BASE_URL

>         value: "tembo.mydomain.com"

Author: Oh okay, good point

Worth noting that, after we bump the images to have the multiple regions support, it it will change to `tembo.mydomain.com`, which is what's currently used in mahout

      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN
        value: "https://xxxxxxxxxxxxxx@o4506351478964224.ingest.sentry.io/4506351480668160"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_ENV
        value: "local"
      - name: APP_ENV
        value: "localhost"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_KEY
        value: "phc_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY
        value: "pk_test_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
      - name: CLERK_SECRET_KEY
        value: "sk_test_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_SELF_HOSTED
        value: "true"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_BILLING
        value: "false"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_SPOT
        value: "false"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUD_PROVIDER
        value: "false"
      - name: NEXT_PUBLIC_CUSTOM_DOMAIN
        value: "false"
```

> The base domain should be the same one created in Step 2. Please get in support with Tembo if you need any help obtaining these values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base domain should be the same one created in Step 2. Please contact our support team if you need any help obtaining these values.
```

> Now, let's install the Tembo Self Hosted Helm chart in your EKS cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's install the Tembo Self Hosted Helm chart in your GKE cluster:
```
